# Image_fusion_using_DCT

IMAGE FUSION USING DCT : The image fusion process is defined as gathering all the important information from multiple images, and their inclusion into fewer images, usually a single one. This single image is more informative and accurate than any single source image, and it consists of all the necessary information. The purpose of image fusion is not only to reduce the amount of data but also to construct images that are more appropriate and understandable for the human and machine perception.
Off late, different image fusion algorithms have been developed to merge the multiple images into a single image that contain all useful information. Pixel averaging of the source images (the images to be fused) is the simplest image fusion technique and it often produces undesirable side effects in the fused image including reduced contrast. To overcome this side effects many researchers have developed multi resolution , multi scale and statistical signal processing based image fusion techniques.
In similar line, contrast based image fusion algorithm in DCT domain has been presented to fuse the out of focus images. Local contrast is measured by 8x8 blocks. However, there is no discussion on the fusion performance by choosing different block sizes. Image to be fused are divided into non-overlapping blocks of size NxN .
DCT coefficients are computed for each block and fusion rules are applied to get fused DCT coefficients. IDCT is then applied on the fused coefficients to produce the fused image/block. The procedure is repeated for each block.
